the latest good afternoon and welcome to
today's downing street coronavirus
briefing
i'm joined remotely by professor stephen
powers the
national medical director of the nhs
and by deputy chief medical officer
professor jonathan
van tam before turning to progress on
vaccines
i'd like to go through the latest data
the latest
average number of new cases each day is
now
22 287
and i'm glad to say that that is just
down
on the 24 430
a week ago i want to thank everybody for
doing their bit
during this lockdown and taken together
with the office for national statistics
survey that was published at lunchtime
these figures are promising
and they showed that the second peak is
flattening
but we must keep our resolve there are
today sixteen thousand
four hundred and nine covered patients
in hospital
across the uk and sadly yesterday
511 reported deaths
this is a virus that has cast a shadow
over this incredibly difficult year and
we've always known that the best
long-term answer will be the ray of
light provided by a vaccine
after clean water vaccines are the most
effective public health intervention
that has ever been
devised by mankind they are how we
eradicated smallpox
and how we're on the brink of
eliminating polio
and each winter they help our nhs stand
firm against flu already this year we've
vaccinated more than 12
million people a record number for this
time of year
and because i took the decision earlier
this year
to double the order of flu jabs i can
now announce
that we're rolling out free flu jabs in
england
to all over 50s from the 1st of december
a reminder your gp will contact
you you don't need to call them
and i want to thank all gps and
pharmacists
for the role that they'll play in
rolling out the flu jab
this record scale of flu vaccination
program
this year and this winter of
all winters it's important that you get
your jab
because catching flu and covid
together is very dangerous i urge anyone
who is eligible for a flu jab to get one
to protect you to protect your loved
ones
and to support the nhs right from the
start
we've thrown everything we've got at the
global search
for a vaccine against covert the best
scientific brains from all around the
world
have been working together on a solution
and the uk
has funded more international support
than any other country of any size
we should be very proud in this country
of the part that we've played
to find a vaccine for all of humanity
there are now more there are now many
promising vaccine candidates going
through clinical trials
and over the past few weeks we've seen
encouraging results
from phase three trials from moderna and
fisa bientech and from the phase two
trials
of the astrazeneca oxford vaccine and
today we have more positive news
pfizer beyond tech announced this
morning that it has submitted for
emergency use
authorization from the fda based on
phase 3 data
which shows the vaccine is 95 percent
effective
with no serious safety
concerns here in the uk
the first step of authorizing a vaccine
is for the government formally to ask
the independent regulator
the medicines and healthcare products
regulatory agency or
mhra as it's known to assess its
suitability
the mhra which acts for the entire uk
is one of the world's most respected
regulators
and i can confirm that the government
has formally asked the mhra
to assess the fisa biontech vaccine
for its suitability for authorization
pfizer beyondtech have already begun
supplying data to the mhra
and will submit their full data in the
coming days
i want to stress that the mhra is
rigorously independent
and any questions around their process
are entirely for them
this is another important step
forward in tackling this pandemic if a
vaccine is approved
it will of course be available across
the uk
from our nhs free at the point of
delivery
according to need not ability to pay
we've procured vaccines on behalf of all
parts of our country and i'm working
with the devolved administrations to
ensure it's deployed
fairly to all across the uk
we'll prioritize groups who are at
greatest risk
based on advice from the joint committee
on vaccinations and immunizations
and it's worth saying this the rollout
will be a
massive logistical challenge but i know
that the nhs can do it
not least because they deliver the flu
vaccine program each year
and the nhs is in the process of
establishing vaccination centers across
the country
that can manage the logistical challenge
of needing to store the fisa beyond tech
vaccine at
-70 degrees in addition
it is establishing vaccination hubs in
hospitals for nhs staff
these two routes are likely to comprise
the bulk of the campaign
this side of the new year then there
will be
a community rollout involving gps and
pharmacists
last week we asked gps to sign up to
deliver local services and i'm really
grateful that so many are coming forward
our approach with these three delivery
models
community teams vaccination sites and
hospital hubs
this has been devised to be flexible and
to reach
all parts of the country and i want to
thank in advance this
huge team the organizers the vaccinators
themselves
and all of the admin and logistical
staff who are going to be working
so hard to make this happen
i know everyone wants to know about the
timing and the speed of the rollout
that will depend on the speed at which
the vaccines
can be manufactured we know that the
manufacturing process
for all vaccines is difficult and
uncertain
so i've asked the nhs to be ready to
deploy at the speed at which the vaccine
can be produced
what i can say about timing is that if
and it still is an if if the regulator
approves a vaccine we will be start
we will be ready to start the
vaccination
next month with the bulk of the rollout
in the new year we're heading in the
right direction
but there is still a long way to go
coronavirus remains a grave danger
right now so we must all keep doing the
things that we
know blunt the force of this lethal
virus
hands facing space and if you have
symptoms
get a test and help keep everyone safe
until the science can help to see us
through
to the other side i'm now going to hand
over to
professor powers to take us through the
data
professor paris thank you secretary of
state
and today i only want to show a single
slide
and that is a slide that i've shown you
previously concerning
hospital inpatients in england
as you know and as we have said before
as infection rates
arise in the community unfortunately the
number of people getting sick rises
and for those who need are the sickest
in need in
patient hospital care clearly that means
admissions into hospital
rise too and the overall number of
patients with covid
in hospital and you can see that as we
went from a
low point in august uh infections in the
community have been rising
through september october and november
and that has meant that the number of
patients
in england has risen you will see that
it stands now at fourteen 14
479 and when i presented this slide
eight days ago at the press conference
last thursday
uh that was about 1 800 less so we've
seen
a rise of around 1 800 in those 8 days
you will see uh from this uh slide that
in the last few days right at the very
right end of the graph
there looks as if there is a leveling
off uh
so that is just a few days later and
it's important not to read too much into
it yet we need to see data
over a few more days and into next week
but again as i've said before it takes
uh
two weeks and and beyond that before we
see any effects of the
reduction in infection rates in the
community
translating into a reduction in
admissions and the number of inpatients
as the secretary of state has said we
are starting to see evidence
uh that as a result of restrictions
infection rates are falling
so it will be important over the next
week or so to look at hospital data to
see whether that translates
as we hope it will do into a flattening
and hopefully a reduction
in the number of inpatients we are not
yet in winter
uh nhs uh gets busy as we get into
december
and into the first months of the new
year and it's really critical that we
keep the number of patients with covid
in hospital down because it's by doing
that that the nhs
can ensure that its services are up and
running everywhere that it can
treat uh patients who have other
conditions as well as all arkovic
patients
and of course all our staff are
incredibly keen
to ensure that we are getting through
the unfortunate backlog of
work that has resulted uh because of
this pandemic
so i want to reiterate the importance of
us all keeping
to the advice to restrictions that are
put in place
uh because it is uh by doing that that
we can best help
uh the nhs to do the job that it always
does
which is to provide care for all uh the
citizens of this country
thank you uh back to secretary of state
thanks very much
to professor powers and now we'll go to
the first question uh the first question
is from members of the public
and uh we turned to stephen from
waybridge stephen
ons stats show us that black and asian
communities
are disproportionately affected by
covid19
they are three to four times more likely
to die of covid19
than those of white ethnicity as such
will these communities be given
vaccine priority after nhs workers
the elderly and those with pre-existing
conditions
thanks steven this is an absolutely
critical question
and one that the joint committee on
vaccinations
and immunizations that advises us on the
clinical prioritization
for vaccines has looked at very
carefully
and i'm going to turn to professor van
tam in a moment
because he has been doing the work on
this
with them and talking to the joint
committee
on this question um but the overall
assessment that they have come to so far
based on the information that they have
and the interim
analysis which will be updated when the
full data is available
is that the most important determining
factor
in your risk is your age
and of course the need to protect those
who are in turn
looking after the most vulnerable
the nhs staff and social care staff
um and that's the assessment that the
jcvi has come to
i'll ask professor van tam now to set
out more details
yes thank you very much there is
really relatively little to add to the
secretary of state's answer
it is definitely something that jcvi
have considered
it is definitely the case that far and
away the biggest
risk factor um for the likelihood of a
bad outcome from covid19
is age followed by the presence of
comorbidities that is chronic underlying
illnesses
that place you at higher risk and we do
know that a very significant proportion
of the unfortunate but true
signal we see in black and minority
ethnic groups
is driven by the presence of
comorbidities
that occur at an earlier age and because
the jcvi is very clear already
in its provisional priority list that it
will be
targeting people according to
having underlying risk conditions then
they believe that that is the right
approach and i would support that and
say
that what is now really important is
that the vaccine is accessible
to all communities irrespective of their
ethnic background
and that people come forwards and that
when they are called and the uptake is
very high
these are going to be critically
important things as we move into a new
phase
of actually being able to deliver a
vaccine program
in the early months of next year
over thank you very much uh professor
van tam
now we turn to claire from birmingham
and claire's question is
i'm a single parent family who works
full-time as a key worker
and i will not be paid by my employer
what support is there
for working families whose children
have to isolate thank you claire
another incredibly important question
and we have put in place
a system of support so that if you have
to isolate
the and you are eligible for
benefits and universal credit then you
can
access a 500 pound support payment for
the period that you have to isolate for
and i know that many thousands of people
have
have benefited from that support and
that payment so that they can
do the right thing because the
self-isolation
that's required when you either test
positive or a close contact
is such an important part of stopping
the spread of this virus
thank you claire for your question now
we'll turn to hugh pim from the bbc
thank you very much secretary of state
how strict will restrictions have to be
in england
after december the second and over how
many days might there be some relaxation
during the christmas season
uh thanks hugh we're doing the work on
what happens
after december the second right now it's
still
too early to tell although we can see
from
the data out in the last couple of days
and also from the
ons survey out today that
this is clearly uh flattening the
peak is clearly um
we're clearly near the peak of this
second increase and the second wave so
what i'd say is i i'm afraid i we still
haven't made those decisions
over christmas i know how important it
is for people
that we have a system in place a set of
rules that both keeps people safe
but also allows people to see their
loved ones and many people
have family in different parts of the uk
so we're working
with the uk government and the three
devolved administrations to try to have
a consistent set of rules across all
four nations
so that it's easier for people to to
travel
and to see their loved ones but there
will have to be rules in place
because we still want to obviously we
want to keep people
safe as well can i ask a follow-up to
yes please do simon steve paris on this
i mean how worried are you
both or one of you how worried are you
about
uh lifting too much and resulting in too
much pressure on the nhs going through
january
well maybe professor powers can answer
that uh that question
yeah thank you hugh and clearly as i
said it's important for the nhs that we
get infection rates down because then we
can take pressure
off nhs services as we go into the nhs
winter
in december and onwards so as i've said
previously
the government will be lifting the
current restrictions on december the
second but i am sure
we will not be going back to normal uh
further restrictions will be required
uh it's important for us that we see
uh numbers of admissions stay down the
public once again has responded this
time round as it did in the spring
we want to ensure that we keep those
gains and we keep the pressure off the
nhs but
as is quite right the decisions as to
which particular measures need to be in
place uh needs to be
a decision for our elected
representatives based of course on
the data analysis and and what the
figures are showing us
thanks very much the next question from
thomas clark
itv tom uh thank you
secretary of state um as you say that
the numbers from the ons survey
today do show the outbreak leveling off
on average
on average across the country but in the
in london
the south east the east of england the
numbers are still
going up it does beg the question
although it's early days
for the lockdown impact do does the
outbreak have to be flat
or falling in all areas for us to safely
ease
lockdown restrictions before christmas
well tom i very much hope that the
numbers will start to fall
we've seen that leveling off that you
describe
we've seen the change in trajectory in
all parts of the country in all parts of
england i should say
and we we
watch each day's data vigilantly
we're just at the point where we're
starting to be able
uh to get a to get a picture of that uh
that flattening uh which is clearly good
news
uh but obviously i i want uh to see that
starting to come down it might be
professor van tan might be able to add
something
to this in terms of expectations because
you know i'm
what i try very much to look at the data
that we are seeing and the data that's
reported and look at that each day
rather than
rather than trying to make projections
myself yes
thank you tom i'm sorry i can't be with
you personally i'm
actually self-isolating at the moment
due to a household contact
you're quite right in the way that you
interpret the latest
ons data but they are from the weeks
8th to the 14th of november so they are
a few days behind
where we are now and it could well be
that these other regions will also the
ones you have pointed out
currently having increased positivity
will turn
i would expect them to turn but we have
to see that in the data
what i would say is that overall clearly
it is an improving picture
these are very early early signs that
the epidemic
is beginning to level but we should be
cautious
about interpreting that and
you know please everyone remember that
um it just takes a few seconds to create
new infections
uh through unneeded close contact
those infections become disease become
illness
typically five to seven days later
and then they become hospitalizations
another seven days after that
so you know you could lose this in just
a few seconds
and we're not at the end of the
prescribed lockdown period at the moment
every single one of us has to keep up
the pressure on this virus
and push down on it as much as we can
right to the end of the period bearing
in mind that when we get to the end of
that period
actually we see the fruits of our
actions um
a few a few days a couple of weeks later
and this is really important don't give
up on it now
thank you eva thanks very much uh tom
the next question from
ben kentish at lbc
thank you secretary of state um i wanted
to follow up on hugh's question because
sage say that for any
day of easing of restrictions over
christmas we'll need five of tougher
restrictions to make up for it
today we heard that any easing over
christmas could lead to thousands tens
of thousands sorry
more deaths that likely mean more cases
that likely means
hundreds more deaths as health security
do you believe
any easing of restrictions just for
christmas is
worth it given the huge cost involved
and if i could just ask you a second
question
and uh health secretary people watching
this many people watching this would
have experienced bullying in the
workplace and they might have hesitant
to come forward
because of a fear that people in
powerful positions simply get away with
it
what would your message to them be today
and just very very quickly to professor
van tan
professor if you could say in percentage
terms now what you believe the chances
are of a vaccine being deployed in the
uk
this year would you better put a figure
on that thank you very much
well thank you uh thanks for those three
questions uh ben
um if i um take uh the first one first
and then i'll ask
uh jonathan van tam to come in
when it comes to christmas i i
understand
that as our the most important holiday
in our year
what an emotional attachment people have
to seeing their
their family over christmas of course i
do and so we are looking for ways to
allow that to happen but also in a w in
a way that is
safe the the question of how
quickly some a the virus recedes
when it's gone up depends on what you
get the r down to
so there isn't a fixed figure um and
um the the question is the action that
we take
and we also have the expanded much
expanded
mass testing that's available now but we
are going to take a
of course we're going to take an
approach that keeps people safe
as well as recognizing the importance of
christmas and
and the importance of seeing our loved
ones over christmas
on the question you asked about the home
secretary the prime minister's
uh made his uh statement the home
secretary has
apologized for for the upset caused
and um and i think
you know i what i would say is i think
it's incredibly important
that everybody is treated with respect
in all circumstances
uh if i um ask jvt to ask answer the
third of your questions
thank you um secretary of state i think
i'll just add a little bit of
color to the um question about christmas
first
and say look you know
the government clearly wants to give us
a break
to some extent at christmas we as
citizens all
want something of a break um but there
are no magic numbers about
um you know one day of christmas end
days of
uh payback in terms of lockdown
it's partly about the proportionate
measures that the government will take
in allowing us to have
sensible sensible
sensible christmas but it's also about
whether we comply
and whether we follow the rules that are
then put in place for that period
and if people don't then the first
scientific principle is that
things will go back up again and that's
really um i think the key message that
there's a dual responsibility here
and there's no magic number um about
how many days this is going to cost us
so we shouldn't frame it that way
on your second question about um
certainty about
vaccines before christmas we do have a
certain readout on the fisa beyond tech
vaccine
which we have contracted to obtain
for the british people we are
waiting the mhra authorization
or at least consideration of whether it
can authorize
the vaccine that is a matter for the
mhra
that i'm not going to speculate on and
it will happen at the speed of science
it has to happen um in their own time
when they are ready and we need to leave
them and trust
them to get on with that we don't know
numbers of vaccines that's of course
always in the hands of the manufacturers
about what they can produce and it's in
the hands of the manufacturers
and the regulatory agencies around
how quickly batches can be released
for use if they are authorized and it's
pointless as speculating
on that at this point in time but do i
believe
that we are now on the glide path
to landing this plane yes i think
i do um do i accept that sometimes when
you're on the glide path
you can have a side wind and that um the
landing is not
you know totally straightforward it's
totally textbook
of course and this is the real science
world that we live in but yes
i think we're on the glide path over
thank you very much and next question is
from chris
smith up the times chris
thank you and i know you've said that
vaccinations people were dependent on
supply
but can you confirm that the plants and
health services general state if the
supply is there it will be possible
to vaccinate every adult who wants it by
april
um and those plans suggested that all
vulnerable groups would be vaccinated by
the end of february
and if so would that mean that by march
obviously the pandemic would not be over
that you would see a reduction
in hospitalizations that mean there
would therefore be no
need for restrictions specifically to
protect the nhs anymore
well uh it's a it's a very important
question
there are all the uncertainties that
professor vantams just set out
um the the task of the nhs
is to ensure that as fast as the vaccine
can be manufactured
so it can then be deployed and i'll turn
to professor powers to
set out some of the details of that
because the nhs is
taking the lead in the deployment of the
of the vaccine
but what i'd say about the questions of
timing is that um
the the uncertainty is over the
regulatory authorization because the
regulator will only allow the vaccine
to be deployed if it is safe
and then over the manufacturing and the
speed at which
the any vaccine can be manufactured and
of course in particular the two leading
vaccines the pfizer biontec and then the
astrazeneca oxford vaccines as the two
leading
candidates however we are
ensuring that we're ready to deploy
should all of that go right from next
month
but i would caution that the bulk of the
rollout
will be in the new year uh even on the
best case scenario
um and it will take a few months
um to to get that
vaccination program through for the
vulnerable groups if the vulnerable
groups
uh stay as currently set out
by the guidance from the jcvi
uh professor powers yes thank you
secretary straight thank you chris so i
think the slides that you're referring
to are from a number of weeks ago and
they are already up to date are
already out of date because we are
continually getting new information from
the clinical trials
from the manufacturers in terms of what
they are able to produce so
in the nhs our job has been to plan for
a number of different eventualities
and we will not be clear exactly how we
will be deploying this until a few
steps have been taken and and both
professor van time and the secretary of
state have outlined those steps
uh we don't have a authorized vaccine
yet so firstly
we need the information from the
clinical trials and as you've heard
uh fisa have uh deposited that with the
fda
today and should be shortly doing that
with mhra so mhra
as a regulator have to consider that
data jcvi
have to then recommend assuming it's
authorized
uh the prioritization for who gets
vaccine in which order according to
to risk uh and and we need information
from the manufacturers on what they can
manufacture they're obviously stepping
up manufacturing in an unprecedented
effort to to increase vaccine supply
uh they're likely to be more than one
vaccine coming
and of course as jonathan has said uh
there will be bumps along the way in
terms of
uh all these processes so we are
planning for
all eventualities uh and again through
routes that we take for vaccination
already every year through our gps
through our community pharmacies
through our hospitals but also through
vaccination centers
we like everybody else want to get the
vaccine out as quickly as possible
we don't underestimate the scale of the
challenge it's a huge challenge
but i like the secretary of state are
confident that we will be able to
deliver that
for the british public but it will take
into next year and it will take a number
of months
whilst we're doing that it's important
that we still
uh as citizens comply with the
restrictions that are in place now and
might be
in place of the future because we will
have a tough winter ahead
and we need to do all these things to
battle this pandemic and get through
thanks uh thank you very much steve and
the the chief medical officer has
uh has said in the past uh chris whitty
has said that
he hopes that we'll be able to get back
more towards normal by the spring
and with this news we've had over the
last
few weeks and with the expansion of mass
testing i'm
more and more confident that he's right
uh if we go to jack blanchard at
politico
hi thanks very much um secretary of
state and and the others you'll be aware
of the scale of misinformation
out there um about vaccines um and the
supposed dangers of them
how are you going to combat that over
the next few weeks and how concerned are
you that take-up won't be high enough
assuming these vaccines are approved and
is there a percentage
of the population that we need to take
this so the virus is actually
defeated next year and just on pretty
patella if i may just for you secretary
of state what is the point in having an
independent advisor
on ministerial standards if the prime
minister is just going to ignore that
advice
when it's one of his mates in the firing
line
well i i've answered the ques the
question on uh on
the home secretary and the prime
minister uh has been clear
that he doesn't think that the home
secretary has broken the ministerial
code
on the uh substantive question about
the vaccine i'll turn to jonathan van
tam in a second
because um he's been very clear about
the best way to explain to people the
benefits
of having a having a vaccine
and all of mainstream
science supports the use of vaccines
where they're safe
and the safety can be assured by the
fact that
this that no vaccine will be rolled out
unless it's uh
unless it's signed off and by
the regulator uh which is independent
but the thing i'd say about the
um the way that we discuss this is that
there's a huge amount
of work that has gone on and is going on
in terms of ensuring that the
objective factual information about a
vaccine
is made available um and
to ensure that that is the information
that people can have access to
rather than things that aren't true and
uh
scarce stories that are that are put
about um
but the best way to uh to reassure
people
is not for people like me to talk about
it but it's for
those who are the real experts and the
clinicians
like professor van tam jonathan
thank you secretary of state so um jack
i'm not sure if you
um saw saw my briefing um of a while ago
um which i did with professor rain from
the mhra
and the mhra were very clear that there
is absolutely no
difference in terms of the rigor and the
standards they will apply
to covid19 vaccines as to any other
before they authorize them and i was
very clear
that i would be very happy with their
authorization
and very happy indeed eager to take a
vaccine myself
and will be telling my mum to do so
and that i think is a really important
message on vaccine misinformation
i just don't propose to give it any air
time
because it is just that misinformation
and
judging by the correspondence i've had
from members of the public
in the last couple of weeks it is clear
that there is much more anxiety about
when vaccines will be available and
where people are on the priority list
and i understand that anxiety and
what i would say is if we can obtain the
vaccines at the scale
which is reflected in our ambition and
if the nhs delivers them
in accordance with the challenge set
down by the secretary of state
that the only thing that will hold us
back is
supply then in actual fact
people shouldn't worry too much about
where they are on a priority order
because
the difference between being you know
this level versus
that level will be one or two or three
weeks it won't be very long at all
because we intend to move
with as much pace as we can possibly
muster
over thank you very much uh professor
van tam i just had one one further thing
jack which is that
on the international studies that look
at uh
people's enthusiasm for vaccines in
different parts of the world
uh the uk ranks uh quite near the top
now of course i'd like that to be higher
still
but we should have a uh a we should have
confidence
in our scientists and our clinicians uh
that
uh given the the the thousands of people
these vaccines have already been
trialled on
in terms of a take-up percentage and the
honest answer to that is we don't know
um i i'm asked this question all the
time and the reason that we don't know
is that in the trials they can
test and measure how how effective a
vaccine is at protecting an individual
but what they can't measure is how much
it reduces the transmission
and until we know that which we'll only
know once we've rolled it out at scale
we then won't know the impact of the
vaccine on
r and therefore won't know
how big a proportion of the population
you need to have vaccinated in order for
it to uh to end the pandemic
what we will know is that it will
protect
in the case of the pfizer vaccine 95
percent of
of people over the time period that it's
been measured we don't know how long
that protection lasts for so we'll have
to stay vigilant to all of these things
and and keep measuring the impact
but um but you know the good news is
that we've
we've seen over the last two weeks some
really very
promising results both from the fisa
beyond
vaccine and from the astrazeneca oxford
vaccine and that means we're now able to
plan with increasing confidence
this this roll out by the nhs
thanks jack finally will james from
reuters
hi thank you secretary of state i
wondered if you could tell us what
assurances you've been given by the
medicines regulator
about how long their process might take
is this something we could expect a
decision from
next week or the week after uh secondly
also you've talked a lot about the
importance of christmas
it's clearly a holiday that um that you
enjoy too what are your plans
well my plans at the moment are to have
a small family
uh christmas uh maybe with my
father-in-law who
lives on his own and is in our family
bubble
that that would be allowed under the
existing rules
and i'm i'm very respectful of the
work going on uh which is being led by
others
to to see if we can get a uk-wide
approach so i don't that's why i'm
reluctant to comment anymore on what the
christmas arrangements might be because
i just think it would be
uh such a uh boost to the whole of the
uk if
if the four nations each responsible for
health care in a devolved way
can can come together and agree a set of
arrangements that's both
both safe and careful and sensible
but also allows a allows families to see
each other at
christmas on the mhra question
um the um it is absolutely a question
for them how long they take i am not
going to
prejudge that at all and in fact i took
the trouble in the opening statement to
say that
questions around their process are
entirely for them
i i hope you'll respect that because we
we we just i don't want to um
even give any impression of trying to uh
impinge on their
uh independence it wouldn't work anyway
even if i tried
um and um and so i'll i i can't answer
that question but what i
can do is say that uh given the
fisa beyond tech application in
the united states to the fda
that has given us the confidence um
and um with their data releases over the
last few days
that has given us the confidence
formally to start the process
here which by law first requires the
government
to ask the mhra to consider
an authorization and i'm delighted that
we've been able to announce that today
uh thanks will thanks all for the
questions members of the public
members of the press thank you for uh
professor
van tam and professor powis for also
abele fielding questions
virtually and that concludes today's
coronavirus briefing
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc dot co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news